added blog post about micro-ROS at ERF 2021 (#318)
micro-ROS/micro-ROS.github.io: _posts/2021-04-13-ERF2021.md

---
title: micro-ROS at European Robotics Forum 2021
author: JanStaschulat
---

On April 13th 2021, we presented micro-ROS at the [European Robotics Forum 2021](https://www.eu-robotics.net/robotics_forum/) 

<img alt="Deeply Embedded Software Workshop" src="/img/posts/2021-04-13-micro-ROS-at-ERF2021.png" width="80%"/>

> In this workshop, Francesca Finoccharo (eProsima) presented in detail the micro-ROS architecture, supported platforms and reported recent developments and features: A versatile API for custom transports, continious fragment mode, static memory pools in the RMW and time synchronization beween client and agent. ([slides](/download/2021-04-13-ERF-eprosima.pdf))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this workshop, Francesca Finoccharo (eProsima) presented in detail the micro-ROS architecture, supported platforms and reported recent developments and features: A versatile API for custom transports, continuous fragment mode, static memory pools in the RMW and time synchronization between client and agent. ([slides](/download/2021-04-13-ERF-eprosima.pdf))
```

Reviewer 2: You may even remove the "In this workshop" now, given may proposed addition to the very first sentence.

> Then, Jan Staschulat (Bosch) gave an overview of the RCLC API of micro-ROS and highlighted the deterministic RCLC Executor. ([slides](/download/2021-04-13-ERF-bosch.pdf)) Two customers of micro-ROS presented their industrial use-cases and emphasized the benefit of micro-ROS: First, Ana&euml;lle Sarazin (WYCA Robotics) presented "Elodie and micro-ROS" ([slides](/download/2021-04-13-ERF-wyca.pdf)) and, secondly, Tomasz Rokosz (Hydra System) presented "micro-ROS enabled GNSS receiver" ([slides](/download/2021-04-13-ERF-hydra.pdf)) ([video of the demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hTEnTju1Qkg))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, Jan Staschulat (Bosch) gave an overview of the RCLC API of micro-ROS and highlighted the deterministic RCLC Executor. ([slides](/download/2021-04-13-ERF-bosch.pdf)) Two customers of micro-ROS presented their industrial use-cases and emphasized the benefit of micro-ROS: First, Analle Sarazin (WYCA Robotics) presented "Elodie and micro-ROS" ([slides](/download/2021-04-13-ERF-wyca.pdf)) and, secondly, Tomasz Rokosz (Hydra System) presented "micro-ROS enabled GNSS receiver" ([slides](/download/2021-04-13-ERF-hydra.pdf)) ([video of the demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hTEnTju1Qkg))
```

> Finally, we hosted a panel discussion with Pablo Garrido Sanchez (eProsima), Alexandre Malki (PIAP), Jan Staschulat (Bosch), Ana&euml;lle Sarazin (WYCA Robotics) and Tomasz Rokosz (Hydra System) which stimulated a very lively participation of the audience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, we hosted a panel discussion with Pablo Garrido Sanchez (eProsima), Alexandre Malki (PIAP), Jan Staschulat (Bosch), Anaelle Sarazin (WYCA Robotics) and Tomasz Rokosz (Hydra System) which stimulated a very lively participation of the audience.
```

author: JanStaschulat
---

On April 13th 2021, we presented micro-ROS at the [European Robotics Forum 2021](https://www.eu-robotics.net/robotics_forum/) in a dedicated workshop organized by several partners of this project. First, Francesca Finoccharo (eProsima) presented in detail the micro-ROS architecture, the supported platforms, several demonstrations and reported on new features: A versatile API for custom transports, continuous fragment mode, static memory pools in the RMW and time synchronization between client and agent:

<embed src="/download/2021-04-13-ERF-eprosima.pdf" type="application/pdf" width="100%" height="450px"/>

Then, Jan Staschulat (Bosch) gave an overview of the RCLC API with a code example and highlighted the deterministic behavior of the RCLC Executor: 

<embed src="/download/2021-04-13-ERF-bosch.pdf" type="application/pdf" width="100%" height="450px"/>

Two customers of micro-ROS presented their industrial use-cases and emphasized the benefit of micro-ROS: First, Ana&euml;lle Sarazin (WYCA Robotics) presented "Elodie and micro-ROS":

<embed src="/download/2021-04-13-ERF-wyca.pdf" type="application/pdf" width="100%" height="450px"/>

> and, secondly, Tomasz Rokosz (Hydra System) presented "micro-ROS enabled GNSS receiver":

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And, secondly, Tomasz Rokosz (Hydra System) presented "micro-ROS enabled GNSS receiver":
```

<embed src="/download/2021-04-13-ERF-hydra.pdf" type="application/pdf" width="100%" height="450px"/>

> Video of the demo by Hydra Systems:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Video of the demo by Hydra System:
```
